Added JAX for PyTorch users tutorial (#68)
jax-ml/jax-ai-stack: docs/JAX_for_PyTorch_users.md

```

You can even initialize arrays with constants or random values. For example:

```{code-cell} ipython3
---
colab:
  base_uri: https://localhost:8080/
id: PQhflPwAImj1
outputId: a75045a7-3a97-49d0-a215-42426f4e0ff4
---
shape = (2, 3)
ones_tensor = jnp.ones(shape)
zeros_tensor = jnp.zeros(shape)

seed = 123
key = jax.random.key(seed)
rand_tensor = jax.random.uniform(key, shape)

print(f"Random Tensor: \n {rand_tensor} \n")
print(f"Ones Tensor: \n {ones_tensor} \n")
print(f"Zeros Tensor: \n {zeros_tensor}")
```

JAX avoids implicit global random state and instead tracks state explicitly via a random `key`.
If we create two random arrays using the same `key` we will obtain two identical random arrays.
We can also split the random `key` into multiple keys to create two different random arrays.

```{code-cell} ipython3
seed = 124
key = jax.random.key(seed)
rand_tensor1 = jax.random.uniform(key, (2, 3))
rand_tensor2 = jax.random.uniform(key, (2, 3))
assert (rand_tensor1 == rand_tensor2).all()

k1, k2 = jax.random.split(key, num=2)
rand_tensor1 = jax.random.uniform(k1, (2, 3))
rand_tensor2 = jax.random.uniform(k2, (2, 3))
assert (rand_tensor1 != rand_tensor2).all()
```

> For further discussion on random number in NumPy and JAX check [this tutorial](https://jax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/random-numbers.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For further discussion on random numbers in NumPy and JAX check [this tutorial](https://jax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/random-numbers.html).
```

---
colab:
  base_uri: https://localhost:8080/
id: 4AwolCS1OHw2
outputId: 3defd0bb-4548-4afa-fe9c-3e84b446df24
---
x_jax = jnp.ones((3, 4))
print(f"Shape of tensor: {x_jax.shape}")
print(f"Datatype of tensor: {x_jax.dtype}")
print(f"Device tensor is stored on: {x_jax.device}")
```

+++ {"id": "S4CxmHSaKz-r"}

However, there are some notable differences between PyTorch tensors and JAX Arrays:
- JAX Arrays are immutable
- The default integer and float dtypes are int32 and float32
- The default device corresponds to the available accelerator, e.g. cuda:0 if one or multiple GPUs are available.

```{code-cell} ipython3
---
colab:
  base_uri: https://localhost:8080/
id: cDVk9NjNKqJ2
outputId: 3769b2fe-c241-447a-a9d9-c622b568e963
---
try:
  x_jax[0, 0] = 100.0
except TypeError as e:
  print(e)

x_torch = torch.tensor([1, 2, 3, 4])
x_jax = jnp.array([1, 2, 3, 4])
print(f"Default integer dtypes, PyTorch: {x_torch.dtype} and Jax: {x_jax.dtype}")

x_torch = torch.zeros(3, 4)
x_jax = jnp.zeros((3, 4))
print(f"Default float dtypes, PyTorch: {x_torch.dtype} and Jax: {x_jax.dtype}")
print(f"Default devices, PyTorch: {x_torch.device} and Jax: {x_jax.device}")
```

+++ {"id": "1o1u2N1lL7I3"}

> Note that this tutorial does not cover the API to set values on indices on an existing JAX Array. For more details, please check the corresponding JAX documentation: https://jax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_autosummary/jax.numpy.ndarray.at.html.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For some discussion of JAX's alternative to in-place mutation, refer to https://jax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_autosummary/jax.numpy.ndarray.at.html.
```

+++ {"id": "_x7LutxoC3Eq"}

### Devices and accelerators

Using the PyTorch API, we can check whether we have GPU accelerators available with `torch.cuda.is_available()`. In JAX, we can check available devices as follows:

```{code-cell} ipython3
---
colab:
  base_uri: https://localhost:8080/
id: s0k84UEMQSwL
outputId: 71b3658b-45ee-4fe1-a972-986f2e0da950
---
print(f"Available devices given a backend (gpu or tpu or cpu): {jax.devices()}")
# Define CPU and CUDA devices
cpu_device = jax.devices("cpu")[0]
cuda_device = jax.devices("cuda")[0]
print(cpu_device, cuda_device)
```

+++ {"id": "u4zGIZt9RyDF"}

Let's briefly explore how to create arrays on CPU and CUDA devices.

```{code-cell} ipython3
---
colab:
  base_uri: https://localhost:8080/
id: 9ZSyG8Q6Q5Jw
outputId: 68da1b2b-6803-4382-c851-b1c1062c60dd
---
# create an array on CPU and check the device
x_cpu = jnp.ones((3, 4), device=cpu_device)
print(x_cpu.device, )
# create an array on GPU
x_gpu = jnp.ones((3, 4), device=cuda_device)
print(x_gpu.device)
```

> In JAX it is possible to implicitly move an array from one device to another when we operate with arrays on different devices. Namely, when we create a JAX Array **without explicitly** specifying a device, unlike PyTorch, in the computation it can be implicitly moved to the explicitly specified device of another JAX Array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In PyTorch we are used to device placement always being explicit. JAX can operate this way via explicit device placement as above, but unless the device is specified the array will remain *uncommitted*: i.e. it will be stored on the default device, but allow implicit movement to other devices when necessary:
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
x = jnp.ones((3, 4))

x.device, (x_cpu + x).device
```

> However, if we make a computation with two arrays with explicitly specified devices, e.g. CPU and CUDA, similarlyto PyTorch, an error will be raised.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if we make a computation with two arrays with explicitly specified devices, e.g. CPU and CUDA, similarly to PyTorch, an error will be raised.
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
try:
    x_cpu + x_gpu
except ValueError as e:
    print(e)
```

To move from one device to another, we can use `jax.device_put` function:

```{code-cell} ipython3
x = jnp.ones((3, 4))
x_cpu = jax.device_put(x, device=jax.devices("cpu")[0])
x_cuda = jax.device_put(x_cpu, device=jax.devices("cuda")[0])
print(f"{x.device} -> {x_cpu.device} -> {x_cuda.device}")
```

```{code-cell} ipython3

> ```

Reviewer: Remove empty code cell?

```

Join arrays similar to `torch.cat`. Note the kwarg name: `axis` vs `dim`.

```{code-cell} ipython3
---
colab:
  base_uri: https://localhost:8080/
id: AQVP9jKcXWiR
outputId: 9f0eb8c2-bda0-4864-9be3-f3941fcb74e8
---
t1 = jnp.concat([tensor, tensor, tensor], axis=1)
print(t1)
```

Arithmetic operations. Operations below compute the matrix multiplication between two tensors. y1, y2 will have the same value.

```{code-cell} ipython3
:id: P8jcElVyYTp7

# ``tensor.T`` returns the transpose of a tensor
y1 = tensor @ tensor.T
y2 = jnp.matmul(tensor, tensor.T)

assert (y1 == y2).all()

# This computes the element-wise product. z1, z2 will have the same value
z1 = tensor * tensor
z2 = jnp.multiply(tensor, tensor)

assert (z1 == z2).all()
```

Single-element arrays. If you have a one-element array, for example by aggregating all values of a tensor into one value, you can convert it to a Python numerical value using `.item()`:

```{code-cell} ipython3
---
colab:
  base_uri: https://localhost:8080/
id: icgYp1wKYnGi
outputId: a58d0290-145a-4cd0-d78b-10c4729c0bc7
---
agg = tensor.sum()
agg_value = agg.item()
print(agg_value, isinstance(agg_value, float), isinstance(agg, jax.Array))
```

> JAX is following NumPy's lead and recommending a functional approach and thus JAX Array API exposes less array methods compared to PyTorch Tensors:

Reviewer: I know I suggested this, but I think it's not sounding right. How about:

> JAX follows NumPy in exposing a number of reduction and other operations as array methods:

```python
# Commonly exposed class ops
jax_array = jnp.ones((2, 3))
jax_array.sum(), jax_array.mean(), jax_array.min(), jax_array.max(), jax_array.dot(jax_array), # ...

tensor = torch.ones(2, 3)
tensor.sum(), tensor.mean(), tensor.min(), tensor.max(), tensor.matmul(tensor.T), # ...

> 

Reviewer: Then break this to another cell and say "PyTorch exposes many more methods on its tensor object than either JAX or NumPy does on their respective array objects. Here are some examples of methods only available in PyTorch:

# PyTorch only exposed class ops
tensor.sigmoid(), tensor.softmax(dim=1), tensor.sin(), # ...
```

```{code-cell} ipython3

> 

Reviewer: Remove empty cell

    eval_step(model, metrics, test_batch)

  # Log the test metrics.
  for metric, value in metrics.compute().items():
    metrics_history[f'test_{metric}'].append(value)
  metrics.reset()  # Reset the metrics for the next training epoch.

  print(
    f"[train] epoch: {epoch + 1}/{num_epochs}, "
    f"loss: {metrics_history['train_loss'][-1]:0.4f}, "
    f" accuracy: {metrics_history['train_accuracy'][-1] * 100:0.4f}"
  )
  print(
    f"[test] epoch: {epoch + 1}/{num_epochs}, "
    f"loss: {metrics_history['test_loss'][-1]:0.4f}, "
    f"accuracy: {metrics_history['test_accuracy'][-1] * 100:0.4f}"
    "\n"
  )
```

### Further reading

More details about Flax NNX API, how to save and load the model's state and about available optimizers, we suggest to check out the links below:
- [FLAX NNX](https://flax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/nnx_basics.html)
- [Save & Load model's state](https://flax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guides/checkpointing.html)
- [Optax](https://optax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

Other AI/ML tutorials to check out:
- [JAX AI Stack tutorials](https://jax-ai-stack.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tutorials.html)

```{code-cell} ipython3

```

```{code-cell} ipython3

> ```

Reviewer: Remove empty code cells

## Just-In-Time (JIT) compilation in JAX

PyTorch users know very well about the eager mode execution of the operations in PyTorch, e.g. the operations are executed one by one without any high-level optimizations on sets of operations. Similarly, almost everywhere in this tutorial we used JAX in the eager mode as well.

In PyTorch 1.0 [TorchScript](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/jit.html) was introduced to optimize and serialize PyTorch models by capturing the execution graph into TorchScript programs, which can then be run independently from Python, e.g. as a C++ program.

> In JAX, there is a similar transformation: [`jax.jit`](https://jax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_autosummary/jax.jit.html#jax.jit). It performs JIT compilation of a Python function for efficient execution in XLA. Behind the scenes, `jax.jit` is tracing the function wrapping the inputs into tracers to record all JAX operations. By default, JAX JIT is compiling the function on the first call and reusing the cached compiled XLA code on subsequent calls.

Reviewer: "tracing the function wrappoing the inputs into tracers" sounds strange here. Is there a missing "and"?

```{code-cell} ipython3
def matmul_relu_add(x, y):
    z = x * y
    return jax.nn.relu(z) + x
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
key = jax.random.key(123)
key1, key2 = jax.random.split(key)
x = jax.random.uniform(key1, (2500, 3000))
y = jax.random.uniform(key2, (2500, 3000))
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
%%timeit
matmul_relu_add(x, y)
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
jit_matmul_relu = jax.jit(matmul_relu_add)
# Warm-up: compile the function
_ = jit_matmul_relu(x, y)
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
%%timeit
jit_matmul_relu(x, y)
```

> ```{code-cell} ipython3

Reviewer: Remove empty cell

```

### Further reading

- https://jax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/jit-compilation.html

> ```{code-cell} ipython3

Reviewer: Remove empty cell
